Well come back in this video you are going to learn about comparison operators.
Therefore let's go ahead and use one.
So you can see what a comparison operator is let's say six is less than five.
And if that's the case then just print Yes onto the console.
So let's execute that code.
And as you can see nothing happens.
So it doesn't execute it and why is that.
That is because six is not less than five six is in fact greater than five.
So if we check that out once again with a print statement we would just say six less than five if we
execute that we get false here which means that this statement is false.
And as you already know from the last video the if statement needs to have a condition that is true.
Otherwise it won't execute it's code.
That's why this print statement here with the yes statement is never going to be printed because this
condition here is not true.
So let's check it out with a different one.
Let's check it out with five lower or less than six.
Let's print that.
And as you can see this statement here now is true.
So now if we would use that statement at the top here then we get this printed yes on to our console.
So that's a good thing.
Now we can also use variables in order to store a boolean with him.
So let's say we have B equals false.
So we have this variable and we said it's value to false and here it's important that we use the capital
F as you can see now it's green which indicates that Python understands that this is a boolean.
In this case and now let's print B onto the console just to check and see where B is simply false.
Now what we also can do is we can store an actual comparison in our variable.
So this result variable is going to be the result of five lower six or less than six.
Now if we check results now and we print something on the console something like five is less than six.
Let's do that.
As you can see we get this printed onto the console.
So let's check a different thing.
Let's check result here.
Let's just see what result is.
So let's execute that again.
And as you can see resoled is true.
So result now is a boolean variable which contains a boolean and a boolean only has two values.
It can either be true or it can be false.
So this result here is true because 5 is less than six.
That's why this statement is printing out that code here onto the console.
So you can see the text now less than and greater then are not the only ones that there are there are
equal comparisons as well.
So let's check it out let's print out five double equal five.
Now you might wonder why do we need double equal.
There is because a simple equal one single equal is setting a value and two equal signs.
They compare values.
So when you see double equal that is always a comparison.
And as you can see five equal equal five is true.
Why is that.
Well because five is five.
But if we do something like print five equal equal four then we get false because this statement here
is incorrect.
Five is not four.
It's as simple as that.
Now you can do this also with strings so let's create a word which is just going to be hello very basic
word and we are going to print a word equal equal.
Hello.
Now let's see what happens.
As you can see we get the statement true.
That's because word in fact has the value of hello.
That's why this statement here is true.
Then we can also check out if word is equal equal word.
See if that's true.
And as you can see that's false even if we would use a word with a small or uncapitalized letter.
As you can see it's false that's why it's it's not comparing the name of the word variable.
It's comparing its contents.
So we're comparing the content which is Halo 2 this word content which is not true.
That's why we get this false statement here.
Now we can also do something which is an an equal comparison which means.
So let's use word again which is going to be hello once again.
Actually we didn't need to create that but I'm just going to create it in a different role here or a
different cell.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to print word an equal hello and this statement here is going
to be false.
Why is that.
Because we are comparing the content of word and we are asking is it not equal.
Hello.
So an exclamation mark Plus the equal sign will result in a not equal.
So this means not equal and there through we get false.
Let's check it out and we see false.
Now let's do the same with this word example that we had some going to copy and paste that real quick
and I'm going to use an exclamation mark here as well and execute that.
And as you can see this statement now is true because we are saying word is not equal the word word.
And that's why the statement is true.
Now of course you can do the same thing with numbers but how are you going to look at it is greater
or equal or less than equal.
So let's print five less than five on the console and that will give us false.
But if we do something like print five less than equal five we get true.
Why is that.
Because we're checking is five lower or less than or equal five.
It is not less than but it is equal five.
That's why this statement here is true.
So that that's why we get printed.
True onto the con..
Now we can do the same thing with greater then.
So print five creator five that will of course be false.
But then if we say print five creator equal five that will be true.
So that's really important not just for statements but also for loops which we're going to cover later
on.
That's why I wanted to really put an emphasis on comparison operators.